# UPM-toolpath-waviness

Rbliang's project on tool path generation based on tool edge profile and waviness in ultra-precision machining.

## Principle

### Tool Profile Error Modelling



### Toolpath Optimization



### Spiral Toolpath Generation



### Post-processing



## Usage

### Functions

The main functions of the package are located in the folder `src`. 

#### s1: tool fitting and modelling



#### s2: surface generation

_(temporarily useless)_

#### s4: spiral path optimization for aspherical surfaces

M-code beginning with `s4`

For the one thing, the codes named as `cmp` are the comparison methods compared with those with `optim`.

- `s4_cmp_2D_radius_res_iter.m`: the M-code for **iterative** calculation of the method, which is based on the constant-residual-height object, and on the circular tooltip.
- `s4_cmp_2D_radius_res1.m`: the M-code for **direct** calculation of the method, which is based on the constant-residual-height object, and the circular tooltip.

For another, the codes named as `optim` are the main method put forward in the repo.

- `s4_optim_2D_aspheric_actual_tip_multi.m`: 
- `s4_optim_2D_aspheric_actual_tip_multi_iter.m`: 
- `s4_optim_2D_aspheric_actual_tip_single.m`: 
- `s4_optim_2D_aspheric_actual_tip_single_iter.m`: 



#### s5: spiral path optimization for freeform surfaces

_(need to improve in the future)_



#### s6: visualization and simulation

M-codes beginning with `s6` are used for post-processing of the tool path generation. In this package, tool path visualization and error calculation are needed after generating the path. 

First of all, **post-process** is a must after tool path generation, because only the CNC-format code can be identified by the machine tool. As a result, format transformation and CNC file writing are conducted in the `s6_post_process.m` code, as well as velocity and acceleration of path in the `s6_post_dynamic_performancee.m`.

Secondly, codes beginning with 's6_simul' are used for simulating the actual surface of the CNC code. As soon as **the tool data, the surface equation and the CNC code** are loaded, **the designed and actual surface** will be calculated and shown, as well as **the PV and RMS values**.

- `s6_simul_diffsys_2D`: code for 2-axes turning process, the CNC code of which is generated by [DIFFSYS](https://www.precitech.com/product/diffsys)

- `s6_simul_diffsys_STS_from_2D`: code for the STS turning process of aspherical surface, the CNC code generated by [DIFFSYS](https://www.precitech.com/product/diffsys)
- `s6_simul_custom_STS_res`: code for the STS turning process of aspherical surface, the CNC code generated by my code beginning with `s4`

Lastly, codes beginning with `s6_visualize` are sub-function of the tool path optimization code to draw the tool path and to show the residual error of them.

- `s6_visualize_concentric.m`: code for concentric path
- `s6_visualize_concentric_multi.m`: code for multi-intersection concentric path
- `s6_visualize_process.m`: code for turning process _( still have bugs )_
- `s6_visualize_spiral.m`: code for spiral path
- `s6_visualize_spiral_multi.m`: code for multi-intersection spiral path



## Workspace

All the data files, including the imported data files and the exported result files, will be saved in the folder `workspace` located in the root folder.
